add post 'Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: Register the plugin' (#551)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-register.md

---
Title: "Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: Register the plugin"
Date: 2022-02-20
Author: Thomas Labarussias
slug: extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-register
---

> > This post is is part of a series of articles about `How to develop Falco plugins`. It's adressed to anybody who would like to understand how plugins are written and want to contribute.

Reviewer: Suggested correction: **addressed** instead of adressed

> See other articles:
> * [Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: the basics]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}})

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [The registry](#the-registry)
- [Details of your plugin](#details-of-your-plugin)
	- [License](#license)
	- [ID](#id)
	- [Name](#name)
	- [Fields](#fields)
- [Propose your Plugin](#propose-your-plugin)
- [Share with the community](#share-with-the-community)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Introduction

> In the previous [post]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}}) we saw all basics to develop a plugin. With this article we'll see the steps for registering and allow the community to use it.

Reviewer: Suggested correction: With this article, we'll see (comma added)

# The registry

> For now, what we call the registry is a git repository which centralizes all available plugins with a [`yaml` file](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/blob/master/registry.yaml).

Reviewer: Suggested correction: a git repository **that** centralizes

> We automatically get that kind table in the [README](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins#registered-plugins):

Reviewer: Suggested correction: that kind **of** table

| 999 | test                                                                                      | `test`           | This ID is reserved for source plugin development. Any plugin author can use this ID, but authors can expect events from other developers with this ID. After development is complete, the author should request an actual ID | Authors: N/A <br/> License: N/A                                                     |

# Details of your plugin

In this section, we'll describe the key elements for describing your plugin.

## License

The license is not mandatory and you're free to choose the one you want for your plugin. Keep in mind it's often a good practice to have a license.

## ID

Every source plugin requires its own, unique plugin event `ID` to interoperate with `Falco` and the other plugins. This `ID` is used in the following ways:

> * The `ID` is saved in in-memory event objects and is used to identify the associated plugin that injected the event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It is stored inside in-memory event objects and used to identify the associated plugin that injected the event.
```

* The `ID` is saved in capture files and is used to recreate in-memory event objects when reading capture files.

The `ID` must be unique to ensure that events written by a given plugin will be properly associated with that plugin (and its event sources, see below).

## Name

> Each plugin in the registry must have its own `name` and can be different of `event source`, that can be shared accross different plugins (eg, for k8s audit logs, we may have different plugins but only one type of `event source`).

Reviewer: Suggested correction: different **from**
Suggested correction: shared **across** different

The `name` should match this regular expression `^[a-z]+[a-z0-9_]*$`.

## Fields

The `fields` are used for conditions in rules, please describe the available fields of your plugin in the README.

For example:

| Name                     | Type   | Description                    |
| ------------------------ | ------ | ------------------------------ |
| `docker.status`          | string | Status of the event            |
| `docker.id`              | string | ID of the event                |
| `docker.from`            | string | From of the event (deprecated) |
| `docker.type`            | string | Type of the event              |
| `docker.action`          | string | Action of the event            |
| `docker.stack.namespace` | string | Stack Namespace                |

# Propose your Plugin

It's easy, follow these steps:
* fork https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins
* update `https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/blob/master/registry.yaml` in your fork
* add your plugin in the `plugins.source` list
* submit the Pull Request with your modification

# Share with the community

> By sharing your idea and code with the community, you will have direct feedback. Don't hesitate to share your work in the Slack kubernetes#falco before submitting your PR too.

Reviewer 2: We can use some more cheerfulness  here :D 
```suggestion
By sharing your idea and code with the community, you will have direct feedback. Don't hesitate to share your work in the Slack kubernetes#falco before submitting your PR too!
```

# Conclusion

> With this post, you should know how to propose your plugin to the community and have feedbacks about. The following posts will describe more advanced use-cases with events from Cloud Services. Stay tuned :wink:.

Reviewer: Suggested correction: and have **feedback** about **it**.
Suggested corrections: emojis like :wink:, :tada:, or :warning: aren't rendered when publishing the blog.

> With this post, you should know how to propose your plugin to the community and have feedback about it. The following posts will describe more advanced use-cases with events from Cloud Services. Stay tuned!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should now be able to propose your plugin to the community and have feedback about it. The following posts will describe more advanced use-cases with events from Cloud Services. Stay tuned!
```

---
Title: "Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: Register the plugin"
Date: 2022-02-20
Author: Thomas Labarussias
slug: extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-register
---

> This post is is part of a series of articles about `How to develop Falco plugins`. It's addressed to anybody who would like to understand how plugins are written and want to contribute.
> See other articles:
> * [Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: the basics]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}})

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [The registry](#the-registry)
- [Details of your plugin](#details-of-your-plugin)
	- [License](#license)
	- [ID](#id)
	- [Name](#name)
	- [Fields](#fields)
- [Propose your Plugin](#propose-your-plugin)
- [Share with the community](#share-with-the-community)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Introduction

In the previous [post]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}}) we saw all basics to develop a plugin. With this article, we'll see the steps for registering and allow the community to use it.

> > The registration is only for `source` plugins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The registration is mandatory for `source` plugins and optional (but still recommend) for `extractor` plugins. This blog will talk about the registration of `source` plugins.
```

Registering `extractor` plugins is allowed too.

The `name` should match this regular expression `^[a-z]+[a-z0-9_]*$`.

## Fields

The `fields` are used for conditions in rules, please describe the available fields of your plugin in the README.

For example:

| Name                     | Type   | Description                    |
| ------------------------ | ------ | ------------------------------ |
| `docker.status`          | string | Status of the event            |
| `docker.id`              | string | ID of the event                |
| `docker.from`            | string | From of the event (deprecated) |
| `docker.type`            | string | Type of the event              |
| `docker.action`          | string | Action of the event            |
| `docker.stack.namespace` | string | Stack Namespace                |

# Propose your Plugin

It's easy, follow these steps:
* fork https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins
* update `https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/blob/master/registry.yaml` in your fork
* add your plugin in the `plugins.source` list

> * submit the Pull Request with your modification

Reviewer 3: Why not propose to use this link :point_down:  instead?

https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/edit/master/registry.yaml

At least, it would be useful to a remind about signing commit (you know, we require the DCO).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

You can find more information [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins#registering-a-new-plugin).

```

Or something similar.

Date: 2022-02-20
Author: Thomas Labarussias
slug: extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-register
---

> This post is is part of a series of articles about `How to develop Falco plugins`. It's addressed to anybody who would like to understand how plugins are written and want to contribute.
> See other articles:
> * [Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: the basics]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}})

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [The registry](#the-registry)
- [Details of your plugin](#details-of-your-plugin)
	- [License](#license)
	- [ID](#id)
	- [Name](#name)
	- [Fields](#fields)
- [Propose your Plugin](#propose-your-plugin)
- [Share with the community](#share-with-the-community)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
	- [You should now be able to propose your plugin to the community and have feedback about it. The following posts will describe more advanced use-cases with events from Cloud Services. Stay tuned!](#you-should-now-be-able-to-propose-your-plugin-to-the-community-and-have-feedback-about-it-the-following-posts-will-describe-more-advanced-use-cases-with-events-from-cloud-services-stay-tuned)

> # Introduction

Reviewer 4: I think it would be nice to expand this section a bit, what kind of things we cover, why we need to register the plugin, what "register" means, etc.

> In the previous [post]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}}) we saw all the basics to develop a plugin. In this article, we'll focus on the steps to register and allow the community to use it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the previous [Extend Falco inputs by creating a Plugin: Basics]({{< ref "/blog/extend-falco-inputs-with-a-plugin-the-basics" >}}) article, we covered all the basics to develop a plugin.
```

| 4   | [dummy_c](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/tree/master/plugins/dummy_c)           | `dummy_c`        | Like Dummy, but written in C++                                                                                                                                                                                                | Authors: [The Falco Authors](https://falco.org/community) <br/> License: Apache-2.0 |
| 999 | test                                                                                      | `test`           | This ID is reserved for source plugin development. Any plugin author can use this ID, but authors can expect events from other developers with this ID. After development is complete, the author should request an actual ID | Authors: N/A <br/> License: N/A                                                     |

# Details of your plugin

> In this section, we'll describe the key elements for describing your plugin.

Reviewer 4: Can you please elaborate more what "describing" means in this context? Is this some kind of `YAML` file that we need to fill out the fields?

The `name` should match this regular expression `^[a-z]+[a-z0-9_]*$`.

## Fields

The `fields` are used for conditions in rules, please describe the available fields of your plugin in the README.

For example:

| Name                     | Type   | Description                    |
| ------------------------ | ------ | ------------------------------ |
| `docker.status`          | string | Status of the event            |
| `docker.id`              | string | ID of the event                |
| `docker.from`            | string | From of the event (deprecated) |
| `docker.type`            | string | Type of the event              |
| `docker.action`          | string | Action of the event            |
| `docker.stack.namespace` | string | Stack Namespace                |

# Propose your Plugin

It's easy, follow these steps:
* fork https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins
* update [falcosecurity/plugins/edit/master/registry.yaml](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/edit/master/registry.yaml) for adding your plugin in the `plugins.source` list

> * submit your PR

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
submit your PR to [falcosecurity/plugins](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins)
```
